Section focus handling (#286)
wpaccessibility/wp-a11y-docs: docs/topics/code/focus-handling/visual-focus.md

---
title: Visual focus
layout: default
parent:  Focus handling
nav_order: 2
description: Make sure a keyboard focus is clearly visible while navigating through a web page.
---

# Visibility of the keyboard focus

> Make sure a keyboard user clearly sees where the focus is while navigation through a web page. Without a visible focus, it is very easy for a sighted user to get lost and abandon the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure a keyboard user can clearly see where the focus is while navigating through a web page. Without a visible focus indication, it is very easy for a sighted user to get lost and abandon the page.
```

There are two ways to show an interactive HTML element has keyboard focus:
- keep the outline of the browser intact;
- design your own outline or border.

> 

Reviewer: I think these should both say "focus indicator" instead of "outline" or "border". It's more generally true, and not all browsers *technically* use an outline. Some browser focus rings are actually variants of a box shadow.

This also passes WCAG Success criterion 2.4.7 Focus Visible, as explained in [Technique G149: Using user interface components that are highlighted by the user agent when they receive focus](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG22/Techniques/general/G149).

The disadvantage of using the native outline is that each browser displays the outline differently, and that outline may be hard to discover in your design.

## Design your own outline or border

A more reliable way to add an outline is by designing your own. Then the visual representation is consistent and independent of the browser. This also gives you the opportunity to design the outline differently for dark and light mode. 

When you use a custom design, the color contrast criteria of WCAG apply. The color contrast the focus outline or border color should have a contrast ratio of at least 3:1. Against the background, but also against the background color of the focusable element itself. For example, for a button or input field that has a custom background color.

> Provide the outline or border with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide an outline or border with:
```
